# COVID in Schools
Authors: Trung Dam, Aiden Appel, Ethan Hyslop, Andie Walker, and Jojo Zhang
# Introduction
The COVID-19 pandemic has shaken nearly every major cultural institution, forcing a period of unprecedented adaptation across society. Higher education in particular underwent a dramatic change during the pandemic, as millions of students left their classrooms and participated in remote and hybrid learning methods from their homes and dormitories across the nation. While researchers will be examining the short-term and long-term effects of this shift in education for decades, we can already begin to examine what factors worsened the spread of a disease responsible for the suffering of so many. Despite this effort to minimize the spread of COVID, colleges, and universities are inherently social places, and therefore suffered infections. However, the success of different student bodies to reduce COVID infection varied widely. Using data spanning from March 2020 to May 2021, we capture the full case counts reported by each institution before widespread vaccination to evaluate possible explanatory factors for the variance of COVID occurrence across every major college and university in the United States. 
# Research Questions
Q1: How does the Size of School Enrollment affect the COVID-19 Case Rate?

Q2: What is the Relationship Between School COVID Case Rate and County COVID Case Rate?

Q3: What is the Relationship Between School COVID Case Rates and Surrounding Political Leanings?
# Insights and Findings
Overall, our three questions allowed us to learn more about how covid spread throughout colleges. Our first question about school size helped show that medium-sized schools are doing the best, with schools with 5001-10000 doing the best. Surprisingly performing second was small size schools, which one may expect to be the best in controlling Covid cases because of the limited number of students on campus. On the other hand, not as surprisingly, the schools with the worst covid rates were the large schools. The College v County case rate question showed us that only part of our hypothesis was correct: the college case rates were, on average, lower than the county case rates, which held up in colleges across America in the Twin Cities. The second part of our hypothesis about county case rates determining how colleges managed their Covid cases was not proven true, as there needed to be more evidence. However, this further proves that other variables are in play, such as school size and political/religious affliction. When we looked at political support, we first wanted to see if there was a trend outside of the colleges, and generally, Republican states have the worst covid cases, in pure state-level cases and college case rates. Then we filtered by school type, enrollment, and religious affliction, which all had Republican counties doing worse. Then under the scope of Minnesota, we again found a similar result that Republican counties are doing worse with handling covid at the school and state levels.  
